Oracle supplies the following built-in datatypes:

character datatypes
CHAR
NCHAR
VARCHAR2 and VARCHAR
NVARCHAR2
CLOB
NCLOB
LONG
NUMBER datatype
DATE datatype
binary datatypes
BLOB
BFILE
RAW
LONG RAW



Datatype  	Description  	Column Length and Default  
CHAR (size)  

Fixed-length character data of length size bytes.  

Fixed for every row in the table (with trailing blanks); maximum size is 2000 bytes per row, default size is 1 byte per row. Consider the character set (one-byte or multibyte) before setting size.  

VARCHAR2 (size)  

Variable-length character data.  

Variable for each row, up to 4000 bytes per row. Consider the character set (one-byte or multibyte) before setting size. A maximum size must be specified.  

NCHAR(size)  

Fixed-length character data of length size characters or bytes, depending on the national character set.  

Fixed for every row in the table (with trailing blanks). Column size is the number of characters for a fixed-width national character set or the number of bytes for a varying-width national character set. Maximum size is determined by the number of bytes required to store one character, with an upper limit of 2000 bytes per row. Default is 1 character or 1 byte, depending on the character set.  

NVARCHAR2 (size)  

Variable-length character data of length size characters or bytes, depending on national character set. A maximum size must be specified.  

Variable for each row. Column size is the number of characters for a fixed-width national character set or the number of bytes for a varying-width national character set. Maximum size is determined by the number of bytes required to store one character, with an upper limit of 4000 bytes per row. Default is 1 character or 1 byte, depending on the character set.  

CLOB  

Single-byte character data.  

Up to 2^32 - 1 bytes, or 4 gigabytes.  

NCLOB  

Single-byte or fixed-length multibyte national character set (NCHAR) data.  

Up to 2^32 - 1 bytes, or 4 gigabytes.  

LONG  

Variable-length character data.  

Variable for each row in the table, up to 2^31 - 1 bytes, or 2 gigabytes, per row. Provided for backward compatibility.  

NUMBER (p, s)  

Variable-length numeric data. Maximum precision p and/or scale s is 38.  

Variable for each row. The maximum space required for a given column is 21 bytes per row.  

DATE  

Fixed-length date and time data, ranging from Jan. 1, 4712 B.C.E. to Dec. 31, 4712 C.E.  

Fixed at 7 bytes for each row in the table. Default format is a string (such as DD-MON-YY) specified by NLS_DATE_FORMAT parameter.  

BLOB  

Unstructured binary data.  

Up to 2^32 - 1 bytes, or 4 gigabytes.  

BFILE  

Binary data stored in an external file.  

Up to 2^32 - 1 bytes, or 4 gigabytes.  

RAW (size)  

Variable-length raw binary data.  

Variable for each row in the table, up to 2000 bytes per row. A maximum size must be specified. Provided for backward compatibility.  

LONG RAW  

Variable-length raw binary data.  

Variable for each row in the table, up to 2^31 - 1 bytes, or 2 gigabytes, per row. Provided for backward compatibility.  

ROWID  

Binary data representing row addresses.  

Fixed at 10 bytes (extended ROWID) or 6 bytes (restricted ROWID) for each row in the table.  






ANSI SQL Datatype 	Oracle Datatype 
CHARACTER (n), CHAR (n)  	CHAR (n)  
NUMERIC (p,s), DECIMAL (p,s), DEC (p,s)  	NUMBER (p,s)  
INTEGER, INT, SMALLINT  	NUMBER (38)  
FLOAT (p)  	FLOAT (p)  
REAL  	FLOAT (63)  
DOUBLE PRECISION  	FLOAT (126)  
CHARACTER VARYING(n), CHAR VARYING(n)  	VARCHAR2 (n)  
